README.md, before:

[![Build and Run on Linux](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/linux_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/linux_selftests.yaml) [![Build and Run on Windows](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/windows_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/windows_selftests.yaml) [![Build and Run on MacOS](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/mac_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/mac_selftests.yaml)

[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUlyE4rKNGokwH5a-TioS0A)

For complete documentation of this software, please consult <a href="https://baileylab.ucdavis.edu/software/helios">https://baileylab.ucdavis.edu/software/helios, or open the file doc/html/index.html in a web browser.

Helios is a C++ API for 3D physical simulation of plant and environmental systems. In order to build and compile the core library, you will need to install a C/C++ compiler (recommended are the GNU C compilers version 5.5+), and CMake. In order to run many of the model plug-ins, you will need to install NVIDIA CUDA 9.0+, and a GPU with compute capability 3.5+. The software has been tested on Linux, Mac, and Windows platforms.

![Almond Reconstruction](doc/images/AlmondVarietyReconstruction.png)

Commit message:

[1.3.21] 2024-10-24
*Context*
- There was an error introduced in the previous version for writing OBJ files. If no output directory was explicitly specified, the write would fail.
- Added validateOutputPath() function to global.cpp to validate output files and directory paths.
- Replaced getFile*() functions in global.cpp with more robust std::filesystem functions.
- Added improved file validation to Context::writeXML().

*Radiation*
- There was an error introduced in the previous version for writing image output files. If no output directory was explicitly specified, the write would fail. Removed the validateOutputPath() function implemented in the previous version, and replaced it with a better version implemented in global.cpp.

*Plant Architecture*
- The 'tortuosity' shoot parameter was multiplied by a hard-coded factor of 5.0. This was removed, and all tortuosity values in the plant library were scaled by a factor of 5.
- There were some errors with the parameters of some plants introduced in the previous version.
- Added file validation to PlantArchitecture::writePlantStructureXML().

Note: Retroactively adding Heesup, Dario, and Amogh as co-authors based on prior contributions to the synthetic annotation plug-in that were not attributed

Co-authored-by: Heesup Yun <heesup@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Dario Guevara <dariojavo@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Amogh Joshi <amogh7joshi@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Build and Run on Linux](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/linux_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/linux_selftests.yaml) [![Build and Run on Windows](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/windows_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/windows_selftests.yaml) [![Build and Run on MacOS](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/mac_selftests.yaml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/PlantSimulationLab/Helios/actions/workflows/mac_selftests.yaml)

[![YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUlyE4rKNGokwH5a-TioS0A)

For complete documentation of this software, please consult <a href="https://baileylab.ucdavis.edu/software/helios">https://baileylab.ucdavis.edu/software/helios, or open the file doc/html/index.html in a web browser.

Helios is a C++ library for 3D physical simulation of plant and environmental systems. It can generate and manipulate plant and other geometric objects, which can feed into biophysical model plug-ins such as radiation transfer, photosynthesis, and evapotranspiration, among others. 

In order to build and compile the core library, you will need to install a C/C++ compiler (recommended are the GNU C compilers version 7.0+), and CMake. In order to run many of the model plug-ins, you will need to install NVIDIA CUDA 10.2+, and a GPU with compute capability 5.0+. The software has been tested on Linux, Mac, and Windows platforms. The YouTube channel linked above has a number of tutorials for getting started.

![Almond Reconstruction](doc/images/AlmondVarietyReconstruction.png)
